README.md, before:

WordPress Options Class
=======================

Options Class for WordPress plugins &amp; themes

Changelog
---------

##### 3.0.4 (2025-05-26)
* Fixed issue for call the `add_submenu_page()` function. [#5](https://github.com/iworks/wordpress-options-class/issues/5)

##### 3.0.4 (2025-05-23)
* Fixed issue with overriding value by next filter.

##### 3.0.3 (2025-05-22)
* Added new `get_pagehooks()` method to retrieve registered admin page hooks.

##### 3.0.2 (2025-05-21)
* Updated changelog formatting and structure for better readability.
* Improved documentation for the changelog section.

##### 3.0.1 (2025-05-14)
* Fixed security issues with HTML escaping in option descriptions and radio fields.
* Added proper sanitization for option descriptions using `wp_kses_post()`.
* Updated version number in class header and constructor.

##### 3.0.0 (2025-04-11)
* Typo for nonce variable has been fixed.

##### 2.9.9 (2025-03-24)
* The data sanitization for complex values has been removed. [#4](https://github.com/iworks/wordpress-options-class/issues/4)

##### 2.9.8 (2025-03-11)
* The `script` tag has been added to `wp_kses' allowed tags.
* The `style` tag has been added to `wp_kses' allowed tags.

##### 2.9.7 (2025-02-27)
* Atributes `data-*` has been added to `wp_kses' allowed tags.
* Languages files of [select2](https://github.com/select2/select2) has been added.
* The filter `'iworks/option/get/$plugin/$option_group/$option_name` has been added.

##### 2.9.6 (2025-02-22)
* Forms tags usage has been added to `wp_kses` allowed tags.  Props for [Rafał Siemiński](https://rafal.muko.pl/).

##### 2.9.5 (2025-02-11)
* The `wp_kses` usage has been added.
* The `sanitize_text_field` users has been added.
* The `sanitizatize_callback` method has been added to the `register_settings` calls.
* The filter `iworks/options/wp_kses_allowed_html` has been added.
* The `wp_unslash` function usage has been added.

##### 2.9.4 (2025-01-26)
* The `$option` array have been added to few filters.

##### 2.9.3 (2025-01-26)
* The filter `'iworks/options/filter/tr/before/' . $option_name` has been added.
* The filter `'iworks/options/filter/tr/after/' . $option_name` has been added.
* The filter `'iworks/options/filter/td/begin/' . $option_name` has been added.
* The filter `'iworks/options/filter/td/end/' . $option_name` has been added.
* The filter `'iworks/options/filter/th/begin/' . $option_name` has been added.
* The filter `'iworks/options/filter/th/end/' . $option_name` has been added.

##### 2.9.2 (2024-02-13)
* The warning during plugin activation has been fixed. 

##### 2.9.1 (2023-12-28)
* Extra description for buttons has been removed.

##### 2.9.0 (2023-12-19)
* Loading assets has been fixed.

##### 2.8.9 (2023-11-30)
* The `date()` function has been replced by the `gmdate()` function.
* The [select2](https://github.com/select2/select2) jQuery libray has been updated to 4.0.13.
* The deprecated `null` value in the `add_option()` function has been replced by `''`.

##### 2.8.8 (2023-11-06)
* The warnig for regex check on null value has been fixed.
* The warning creation of dynamic property in the class has been fixed.

##### 2.8.7 (2023-10-26)
* One the data escaping has been removed.
* The empty `index.php` file has been added to few directories.
* The issue with undefined variable has been fixed.

##### 2.8.6 (2023-10-13)
* Data input sanitization has been added.
* Escaping has been added.


##### 2.8.5 (2022-06-20)
* The creation of dynamic property has been removed. It causes a warning in PHP 8.2. Props for [waveman777](https://wordpress.org/support/users/waveman777/).
* [Select2](https://github.com/select2/select2) images has been optimized.

##### 2.8.4 (2022-04-04)
* Fixed PHP < 8 error.

##### 2.8.3 (2022-04-04)
* Fixed `last_used_tab`.
* Fixed `udefined` content in tabs.
* Improved admin responsibility. Props for [tanohex](https://wordpress.org/support/users/tanohex/).

##### 2.8.2 (2022-04-04)

##### 2.8.1 (2022-02-13)
* Added `placeholder` into few fields.
* Added `aria-label` into few fields.
* Refreshed used WP classes.

##### 2.8.0 (2022-01-21)
* Update `image` field to new WP Media API.

##### 2.7.3 (2022-01-18)
* Added maxlenght param to text field.
* Fixed data get for older plugins.
* Added two debug values to better debuging.

##### 2.7.2 (2021-12-30)
* Unify data get - it missed dynamic added options.

##### 2.7.1 (2021-08-16)
* Added check for assets enqueue to avoid unnecessary loads.

##### 2.7.0 (2021-06-24)
* Updated jQuery-UI.
* Shorted ui-slide select to max 150px.
* Added missing icons for datepicker.

##### 2.6.9 (2021-04-29)
* Fixed remove default value from database.
* Added `flush_rewrite_rules` to configuration.
* Added field type `button`.

##### 2.6.8 (2019-11-07)
* Implemented `checked()` function.

##### 2.6.7 (2019-11-07)
* Implemented WordPress PSR.
* Added options to money field.
* Added few checks to avoid wrong key warning.
* Added field type `location`.

##### 2.6.6 (2018-09-24)
* Added CSS for tabs.

##### 2.6.5 (2018-03-15)

* Added 'before' and 'after' strings for input() function.
* Added check for `select()` function. Now we can use array or string as value.
* Added methods: number, button, submit and hidden to allow create those form elements.
* Allow using simple array for radio options.
* Handle "theme" mode to fix assets URL.

##### 2.6.4 (2017-12-22)

* Added ability to produce `hidden` name, prefixed by underscore.
* Fixed prolblem with warning. Props for [Michał](https://wordpress.org/support/users/lupinek/)
* Handle `checkbox`, and `switch_button` fields.
* Improved submenu building.

##### 2.6.3 (2017-10-09)

* Added $option['options'] sanitization.

##### 2.6.2 (2017-05-23)

* Fixed a problem with classes for textarea tag.

##### 2.6.1 (2017-05-20)

* Fixed problem with jQuery UI slider, there was 100 as default for min value.

##### 2.6.0 (2017-05-12)

* IMPROVMENT: added slide for checkboxes.
* IMPROVMENT: added [select2](https://github.com/select2/select2).
* IMPROVMENT: added indivudual functions to render elements.

##### 2.4.0 (2015-11-11)

* IMPROVMENT: added ability to create option page in any point of menu
* IMPROVMENT: added meta boxes
* IMPROVMENT: added page load hook
* IMPROVMENT: added script enqueue
* IMPROVMENT: added build-in option page
* IMPROVMENT: integrate tabs display (no more external js in theme or plugin)

##### 2.1.0 (2014-01-11)

* BUGFIX: fix remebering last used tab for theme usage

##### 2.0.0 (2014-01-06)

* IMPROVMENT: init can read both setting: plugin & themes
* IMPROVMENT: add option array filter
* IMPROVMENT: add method to register settings without prefix

##### 1.7.7 (2013-12-27)

* BUGFIX: default value only when is need

##### 1.7.6 (2013-12-18)

* IMPROVMENT: added remove two options to "decativate plugin" function
* IMPROVMENT: added email type input

##### 1.7.5 (2013-12-08)

* BUGFIX: repair some php warnigs

##### 1.7.4 (2013-08-27)

* IMPROVMENT: added filter to change options
* IMPROVMENT: added get_option_group function
* IMPROVMENT: added helper for wp_dropdown_categories
* IMPROVMENT: added helper for wp_dropdown_pages

##### 1.7.3 (2013-06-04)

* BUGFIX: repair get_option, to prevent return always default if null
* IMPROVMENT: added force_default to get_option method

##### 1.7.2 (2013-05-23)

* IMPROVMENT: add min/max attributes to filed type "number"
* IMPROVMENT: add get_option_name method

Commit message:

refactor of add admin menu functions

README.md, after:

WordPress Options Class
=======================

Options Class for WordPress plugins &amp; themes

Changelog
---------

##### 3.0.6 (2025-05-27)
* Refacoring of `add_menu_page()` and `add_submenu_page()` functions usage.

##### 3.0.5 (2025-05-26)
* Fixed issue for call the `add_submenu_page()` function. [#5](https://github.com/iworks/wordpress-options-class/issues/5)

##### 3.0.4 (2025-05-23)
* Fixed issue with overriding value by next filter.

##### 3.0.3 (2025-05-22)
* Added new `get_pagehooks()` method to retrieve registered admin page hooks.

##### 3.0.2 (2025-05-21)
* Updated changelog formatting and structure for better readability.
* Improved documentation for the changelog section.

##### 3.0.1 (2025-05-14)
* Fixed security issues with HTML escaping in option descriptions and radio fields.
* Added proper sanitization for option descriptions using `wp_kses_post()`.
* Updated version number in class header and constructor.

##### 3.0.0 (2025-04-11)
* Typo for nonce variable has been fixed.

##### 2.9.9 (2025-03-24)
* The data sanitization for complex values has been removed. [#4](https://github.com/iworks/wordpress-options-class/issues/4)

##### 2.9.8 (2025-03-11)
* The `script` tag has been added to `wp_kses' allowed tags.
* The `style` tag has been added to `wp_kses' allowed tags.

##### 2.9.7 (2025-02-27)
* Atributes `data-*` has been added to `wp_kses' allowed tags.
* Languages files of [select2](https://github.com/select2/select2) has been added.
* The filter `'iworks/option/get/$plugin/$option_group/$option_name` has been added.

##### 2.9.6 (2025-02-22)
* Forms tags usage has been added to `wp_kses` allowed tags.  Props for [Rafał Siemiński](https://rafal.muko.pl/).

##### 2.9.5 (2025-02-11)
* The `wp_kses` usage has been added.
* The `sanitize_text_field` users has been added.
* The `sanitizatize_callback` method has been added to the `register_settings` calls.
* The filter `iworks/options/wp_kses_allowed_html` has been added.
* The `wp_unslash` function usage has been added.

##### 2.9.4 (2025-01-26)
* The `$option` array have been added to few filters.

##### 2.9.3 (2025-01-26)
* The filter `'iworks/options/filter/tr/before/' . $option_name` has been added.
* The filter `'iworks/options/filter/tr/after/' . $option_name` has been added.
* The filter `'iworks/options/filter/td/begin/' . $option_name` has been added.
* The filter `'iworks/options/filter/td/end/' . $option_name` has been added.
* The filter `'iworks/options/filter/th/begin/' . $option_name` has been added.
* The filter `'iworks/options/filter/th/end/' . $option_name` has been added.

##### 2.9.2 (2024-02-13)
* The warning during plugin activation has been fixed. 

##### 2.9.1 (2023-12-28)
* Extra description for buttons has been removed.

##### 2.9.0 (2023-12-19)
* Loading assets has been fixed.

##### 2.8.9 (2023-11-30)
* The `date()` function has been replced by the `gmdate()` function.
* The [select2](https://github.com/select2/select2) jQuery libray has been updated to 4.0.13.
* The deprecated `null` value in the `add_option()` function has been replced by `''`.

##### 2.8.8 (2023-11-06)
* The warnig for regex check on null value has been fixed.
* The warning creation of dynamic property in the class has been fixed.

##### 2.8.7 (2023-10-26)
* One the data escaping has been removed.
* The empty `index.php` file has been added to few directories.
* The issue with undefined variable has been fixed.

##### 2.8.6 (2023-10-13)
* Data input sanitization has been added.
* Escaping has been added.


##### 2.8.5 (2022-06-20)
* The creation of dynamic property has been removed. It causes a warning in PHP 8.2. Props for [waveman777](https://wordpress.org/support/users/waveman777/).
* [Select2](https://github.com/select2/select2) images has been optimized.

##### 2.8.4 (2022-04-04)
* Fixed PHP < 8 error.

##### 2.8.3 (2022-04-04)
* Fixed `last_used_tab`.
* Fixed `udefined` content in tabs.
* Improved admin responsibility. Props for [tanohex](https://wordpress.org/support/users/tanohex/).

##### 2.8.2 (2022-04-04)

##### 2.8.1 (2022-02-13)
* Added `placeholder` into few fields.
* Added `aria-label` into few fields.
* Refreshed used WP classes.

##### 2.8.0 (2022-01-21)
* Update `image` field to new WP Media API.

##### 2.7.3 (2022-01-18)
* Added maxlenght param to text field.
* Fixed data get for older plugins.
* Added two debug values to better debuging.

##### 2.7.2 (2021-12-30)
* Unify data get - it missed dynamic added options.

##### 2.7.1 (2021-08-16)
* Added check for assets enqueue to avoid unnecessary loads.

##### 2.7.0 (2021-06-24)
* Updated jQuery-UI.
* Shorted ui-slide select to max 150px.
* Added missing icons for datepicker.

##### 2.6.9 (2021-04-29)
* Fixed remove default value from database.
* Added `flush_rewrite_rules` to configuration.
* Added field type `button`.

##### 2.6.8 (2019-11-07)
* Implemented `checked()` function.

##### 2.6.7 (2019-11-07)
* Implemented WordPress PSR.
* Added options to money field.
* Added few checks to avoid wrong key warning.
* Added field type `location`.

##### 2.6.6 (2018-09-24)
* Added CSS for tabs.

##### 2.6.5 (2018-03-15)

* Added 'before' and 'after' strings for input() function.
* Added check for `select()` function. Now we can use array or string as value.
* Added methods: number, button, submit and hidden to allow create those form elements.
* Allow using simple array for radio options.
* Handle "theme" mode to fix assets URL.

##### 2.6.4 (2017-12-22)

* Added ability to produce `hidden` name, prefixed by underscore.
* Fixed prolblem with warning. Props for [Michał](https://wordpress.org/support/users/lupinek/)
* Handle `checkbox`, and `switch_button` fields.
* Improved submenu building.

##### 2.6.3 (2017-10-09)

* Added $option['options'] sanitization.

##### 2.6.2 (2017-05-23)

* Fixed a problem with classes for textarea tag.

##### 2.6.1 (2017-05-20)

* Fixed problem with jQuery UI slider, there was 100 as default for min value.

##### 2.6.0 (2017-05-12)

* IMPROVMENT: added slide for checkboxes.
* IMPROVMENT: added [select2](https://github.com/select2/select2).
* IMPROVMENT: added indivudual functions to render elements.

##### 2.4.0 (2015-11-11)

* IMPROVMENT: added ability to create option page in any point of menu
* IMPROVMENT: added meta boxes
* IMPROVMENT: added page load hook
* IMPROVMENT: added script enqueue
* IMPROVMENT: added build-in option page
* IMPROVMENT: integrate tabs display (no more external js in theme or plugin)

##### 2.1.0 (2014-01-11)

* BUGFIX: fix remebering last used tab for theme usage

##### 2.0.0 (2014-01-06)

* IMPROVMENT: init can read both setting: plugin & themes
* IMPROVMENT: add option array filter
* IMPROVMENT: add method to register settings without prefix

##### 1.7.7 (2013-12-27)

* BUGFIX: default value only when is need

##### 1.7.6 (2013-12-18)

* IMPROVMENT: added remove two options to "decativate plugin" function
* IMPROVMENT: added email type input

##### 1.7.5 (2013-12-08)

* BUGFIX: repair some php warnigs

##### 1.7.4 (2013-08-27)

* IMPROVMENT: added filter to change options
* IMPROVMENT: added get_option_group function
* IMPROVMENT: added helper for wp_dropdown_categories
* IMPROVMENT: added helper for wp_dropdown_pages

##### 1.7.3 (2013-06-04)

* BUGFIX: repair get_option, to prevent return always default if null
* IMPROVMENT: added force_default to get_option method

##### 1.7.2 (2013-05-23)

* IMPROVMENT: add min/max attributes to filed type "number"
* IMPROVMENT: add get_option_name method
